（Because my dataset are too large, almost none of them are able to submit through GitHub. I uploaded them in Google Drive, If you need to download and run, please you the link to access the google drive. (https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1PNu-T7o5fGCpUrXjBqwvhPJ-VcXsABsX?usp=drive_link） Since the data are huge, most of the code will take days to complete running. I uploaded the .ipynb files with the output of each step, which might be easier for those interested in the function or performance of each step. 
 
Data generation and preparation
1.1 Generate Data(on Matlantis): Since the data generation is using Matlantis, a licence required platform, there are some package and function would be be able to run in personal PC environment.
data/random_variation/Generate_random_global.ipynb
data/random_variation/Generate_random_local.ipynb
data/diff_com_T_OV/Generate_data_MD.ipynb
Three notebooks are used to generate .extxyz files for different conditions and different composition with an npt MD running. 

1.2 Data Splitting, FPS data selection, and Visualization: 
data/diff_com_T_OV/npt_final/data_process.ipynb
The data set is huge, so running the PCA fitting will take more than 10hrs, and the whole code will take 2 days. 
data_process.ipynb is used to split the data generated by the previous sections into train, validation, and test sets. Then, SOAP descriptor and dimension reduction are performed to visualize the distribution of the data point in 2D. After that, FPS are applied to selected 10% points from each materials, to avoid too much similar data point in the training set created by MD, wasting most of the computational resource.
data/diff_com_T_OV/npt_final/UMAP_PCA_mixed.ipynb
UMAP_PCA_mixed.ipynb is used to visualize the distribution of the data point between two different data generation methods. Proven that the random global/random local do create more widely spread data compared with the clustered data generated by regular MD.

1.3. Validation data trim: 
data/diff_com_T_OV/npt_final/val_ood_r00.ipynb
val_ood_r00.ipynb is used to trim the validation data set, which originally has 3 random configuration of each composition's each condition and take several days on Sherlock for one training. In order to save the training time and computational resource from those unnecessary extra long validation steps, I manually trim the validation data, by only using one random configuration for each condition, instead of 3.

1.4 Combine Dataset: 
data/random_variation/mixed_data_combine.ipynb
This code is used to combine the training set from FPS selected point and random variation data. Also, the mixed validation dataset is also created here, to combine the random variation generated data and trimmed MD generated data. 

2. Training Preparation(in Sherlock)
2.1 environment setup:
create a new environment with torch, conda, mace installed for further training

2.2 Upload Data
upload the train_mixed.extxyz, val_mixed.extxyz, and test_ood_r00.extxyz to sherlock

3. Model Training
3.1 run training
run_mace_train.sh
The file include all the required command and parameter for training mace and submit job to Sherlock
full_model.model file which is the trained model will be generated after the training is done

3.2 View loss and MAE
epoch_loss.py is used for see the loss vs epoch of during the model training, used to avoid overfitting and save keep the epoch at the limit of necessary.

3.3 Test the Result
test_model.py
Since our test file is also large, it have to be divided into 10 files and run separately. Otherwise, it will out of memory. After running the test_model.py, the RMAE and loss will be printed.


4. Run MD with Trained Model
4.1 run MD with MACE
MACE_training/final/mixed_MD/step1_build_structures.py
MACE_training/final/mixed_MD/step2_mace_sanity_check.py
MACE_training/final/mixed_MD/step3_short_npt_test.py
MACE_training/final/mixed_MD/step4_matrix_T_Ov_volume.py
used to test and run the MD with trained model with our target condition, we want to compared the Thermal Expansion Coefficient(TEC), which is 26-800C of HE_3 and LE_1 npt MD.

4.2 calculate TEC
MACE_training/final/mixed_MD/mace_T_Ov_matrix/pretrain/step4_pretrained_selected_conditions.py
Pretrained model is used to calculate the selected condition of selected compositions, the volume and other parameter after MD will be generated in ./pretrained_mace_selected_conditions/table
MACE_training/final/mixed_MD/mace_T_Ov_matrix/pretrain/tables
the volumn of all condition used trained model to run MD
